# Purpose of this script 
Is to analyze RNA-Seq raw data generated by Illumina sequencing from quality assessment to co-expressino analysis. The organims used in this script is Arabidopsis thaliana a model plant that is widely used in plant sciences. 

The purpose of RNA-seq data is to identify the differences between 12 cytokinin "plant hormone" treatments on Arabidopsis leaves in terms of the number of differential gene expressions, Gene Ontology, and co-expressed clusters of genes in the CK-treated leaves during leaf senescence. AT leaves were placed upon treatment either for 2 hours, 48 hours, 96 hours, or 144 hours. Samples then were taken at the designated time point for RNA-extraction and were sent to for sequencing by NovaGene Inc. 

the following steps are typically taken:

- Ensuring the **quality** of reads with `Fastqc`
- **Trimming** (post-cleaning) with `trimmomatic`
- **Trimming** (after trimmomatic) using `cutadabt`
- ** Mapping to a reference genome using `Hisat`
- Producing **gene counts** with `stringtie `
- Analysis of **differential gene expression** between treatments using `edgeR`
- **Co-expressino analysis** using `Tidyverse`

# Languages used in this script: 
- Bash 
- Python
- R 

# Scripts included for the analysing RNA-seq data. 
There are five scripts in this respoiratory for analysing RNA-seq data. The first one is quality assessment of the Illumina seqeuecning raw reads, 
the second is aligment or mapping to the reference genome and gene count, the third script is differential gene expression by edgR, and the final script is the co-expression analysis. 

# References

Quality assessment and Mapping scripts were originally written by Dr. Tonia Schwartz an Associate professor in the biological department, Auburn University. Modified by Omar Hasannin to analysis Arbaidopsis RNA-seq data. You can find the original scripts in the this link: https://github.com/Schwartz-Lab-at-Auburn/FunctionalGenomicsCourse


The reference genome in this script has been downloaded from TAIR, as well as the functional annotation file for the co-expressin analysis. 
